Conventions
===========

Files architecture
------------------

- The project's directories are organized like that :
  ```
  cplusplusfs/                # root directory of the project
  -----------/include/        # contain the includes needed to compile the source
  -----------/src/            # contain the source files
  -----------/src/main.cc
  -----------/src/a/          # contain the source files of code inside the namespace ::a
  -----------/src/a/b         # contain the source files of code inside the namespace ::a::b
  -----------/src/cplusplusfs # contain the source files of code inside the namespace ::cplusplusfs
  -----------/test/           # contain all the unit tests
  -----------/build/          # contain all files and folders generated during the compilation
  -----------/build/dbg       # files and folders generated by compiler with debug options
  -----------/build/release   # files and folders generated by compiler with release options
  ```

- Each sub folder have to contain the content of one namespace.
  > ---
  > <center>__<! WARNING !>__</center>
  >
  > namespace `::cplusplusfs` corresponds to folders :
  >  `cplusplusfs/include/cplusplusfs/` and `cplusplusfs/src/cplusplusfs/`
  >
  > __NOT__ <s>`cplusplusfs/include/`</s> and <s>`cplusplusfs/src/cplusplusfs/`</s>
  >
  > ---

- Header files have to contain only one class definition

- Each source file should have a associated header file (exception : main.cc and test files)

Naming
------

### Files & Folders

- Names of files or folders have to be lowercase with each word separated by underscores.<br/>
  Example : `cplusplusfs/include/cplusplusfs/nuclear_reactor/combustion_chamber.h`

- C++ source files have as extension `.cc`

- C++ header files have as extension `.h`

- The folders have to be nammed like the namespace in it.<br/>
  Example : definitions inside the namespace `cplusplusfs::` are in the folder `cplusplusfs/include/cplusplusfs` and implementations are in `cplusplusfs/src/cplusplusfs`

- The files have to be nammed like the class in it.<br/>
  Example : definition of class `::cplusplusfs::Echo` is in `cplusplusfs/include/cplusplusfs/file.h` and its implementation is in `cplusplusfs/src/cplusplusfs/file.cc`

### Namespaces

- Namespaces names have to be lowercase with each word separated by underscores.<br/>
  Example : `::cplusplusfs::nuclear_reactor`

### Types

- Types names have to be upper CamelCase (start by an capital letter and have a capital letter for each new word).<br/>
  Example : `::cplusplusfs::File`

### Variables

- Variables names have to be lower camelCase (start by an lower-case letter and have a capital letter for each new word).<br/>
  Example : `::cplusplusfs::File`

>
> Work in progress...
>

### Exceptions

- Those conventions could be bypass when you follow an existing naming convention scheme.
